To create this animation, I used helper functions to break it down into three main chunks. The first chunk plots animated waves and scales the wavelength along the x-axis using smoothstep(). Then this process is duplicated in the other direction. There is also a particle effect where dots appear across the screen in "random" locations. The frequency of the dots increases logarithmically with time, and the random locations are generated with fract() on trigonometric functions. After the waves collapse back into a line, the animation transitions to its second phase, featuring brightly colored concentric circles that expand and contract around the center of the screen. I used cos(), a for-loop, and a circle helper function to create this effect. The final stage adds spinning lines and the random particles when the circles explode outward for the third time. The lines rotate at different speeds, which leads to an interesting look as they sync and spin as one for just a moment. The last addition to the animation is a set of small circles that orbit the center of the screen and mimic the expansion and contractions of the large concentric circles. They also spin faster when they are further from the center and can switch directions. 
My aesthetic intent was to create a theme that invokes space imagery and a retro feel. I kept the background solid black for this reason but added light blue dots across the screen for texture. These dots also remind me of stars in the night sky, which I felt fit with my theme well. I used colors for the waves that were reminiscient of aurora borealis. I wanted to keep the shapes throughout my animation smooth, avoiding sharp corners. The colors of the concentric circles vary, but they alternate between reds/yellows and purples/blues. Once we reach the third stage, I wanted to quickly ramp up the energy, and I think the sudden appearance of the bright rotating lines achieves this effectively. The orbiting circles add another layer that enhances the space aesthetic as well.
